Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another door on this course on Ruby.
And in this story, we are going to see the scope of a variable in a function and outside a function.
So basically, a variable scope is categorized into two kinds.
The first one is the local scope.
And then we have the global scope.
Now, local scope is basically a variable, is defined inside a block.
Then that variable is going to only be accessible inside that block.
And if you want to access that variable outside that block, then your editor is not going to allow
you for that.
And an error message is going to be generated that is going to tell you that that this variable you
are trying to use is not defined anywhere in your code.
And then we have the second type that is the global scope and a global scope variable is basically what
is accessible everywhere in your code, in every block, outside every block and everywhere in simple
words, in your code.
If you want to use that, you can just go on and use it.
Now, there are specific advantages and disadvantages of using the local variables and the global variables.
But if you talk about the local variables, mostly it is very, very, very good to use.
And it also it mostly has almost all the advantages and apparently if you talk it, don't have any kind
of disadvantages.
But if you talk about the global scope, then it has some advantages, but mostly it comes with disadvantages.
Not the first disadvantage of a global variable is the security, because if a variable is accessible
everywhere, then that variable can be manipulated.
Secondly, if you specify a variable as global, then you cannot define that variable anywhere in your
code again, because if you do so, it is going to tell you that this is basically renationalization
are in some programming languages, including Ruby.
What is going to do is that it is going to override the value of the previous variable you have used
and that is going to create messy problems.
And such kind of errors are very difficult to look at as well.
And if you talk about local scope, then you can define a variable inside a blog and outside the blog,
your code does not know that this variable even exists or not.
So you cannot define a variable to time in a single log, but you can use it single time and then outside
that block you can again use it.
And then, for example, you have a third block again, then you can use that variable again.
So you do not fall short of variables in case you are having local scope for most of your variables.
But if you are using global scope, you may fall short of some variables.
So let's see, let's say content to our topic.
That is the variable scope only and functions for now.
So we will see some examples for how variables are going to be accessed.
And let's go on to Adam and let's say you have a function.
And let's say in this function, you have, let's say name.
Equal to my name.
And then you have to just end this function, and if I call this function.
Then if I just use in quotes with it, run school, it is going to run perfectly.
But as you can see, that I have this name equal to matter, and if I want to use this outside this
blog, let's say.
I want to use this puts.
Namoa here again, since names already contain a value, so let's say I've just written name equal to
Maroa here.
And I want to print that name outside this blog, so if I just run the score, it is going to generate
an error and it says undefined local variable or method that is named as name.
So that's why it does not recognize this name, because you have moved outside the block.
And as I told you, that a local variable is something that is accessible only inside a function or
you may say a block.
Then if you talk about the variable scope in, let's say, arguments, so for example, you have my
name Postern from here is just remove it for now.
And let's say you have a variable name over here.
So you have specified name equal to Marrawah here.
You can just write and post name O'Haire underscored and it is going to run perfectly because this variable
name is contented to whatever is received in this name.
And this basically has a scope inside this block.
And again, if you want to print it out outside this blog, but just write inputs, name Abargil, run
the score and it is again going to give me the very same error that says undefined local variable or
a method that is named as name.
So you can not define this variable outside because an argument which is passed a function only has
a scope within that function.
So this is what is local variable, and that is why it is very important, as you can see, that if
I want to use this variable name again in my code somewhere, I can just write a name equal to.
Horn and then I can just use it like boat's name or underscore, and it is going to generate this message
for me so you can use this variable multiple times in your code so you don't fall well short of variables
in code, which is very extensive.
Then we have certain variables which are accessible outside the block, but not inside the block.
And for example, if I have, let's say, a variable X equal to, let's say do over here and let's say
I want to bring that variable X O'Haire or on the and it is going to run perfectly as this is accessible
outside, not outside any kind of block, because we have defined it outside the block and we have printed
it outside the block.
So it is accessible.
But if I tried to use it or help run this code and it is going to generate an error, as you can see,
that this output is printed, which is basically describing executed, but the error which is generated
is that is undefined.
Local variable or Method X is basically for this right here, which we are trying to print out, because
this X variable is not accessible inside this block, because this is accessible outside the block.
So this is how this is also a basically a case of local variable, is that you can have variables that
are outside the block and then you can use the very same variable inside the block, for example, you
just have to specify X again and you can specify a value three acts from this code and you can see that
two hundred is going to be printed out.
So that's a game that you don't fall short of variables.
Then comes the concept of global variables.
So to define a global variable but you have to do is that you have to specify a dollar sign away here.
And wherever you have used this variable X, you have to specify Dorasan with that.
So you can not just reinitialize it now.
To specify a dollar sign over here, you have to specify our dollars an hour here as well.
Now as you can see that we have this X equals two, which is defined outside the block, and we are
trying to print its value inside a blog as well as outside a block.
So if I just run this code, you can see that it ran perfectly and you've got two and two right over
here without any kind of error messages.
So that's how basically you can use global variables.
And let's say, for example, I want to redefine the value for this X and just the right in dollars
X equal to three.
If I just try to run this code that, as you can see, that you have got to for the first case and then
you have got three for the second case, that is basically this.
So when this function is going to be call, it is going to print on three.
And when this first one is going to go be call, it is going to print out this two.
And if you try to let's say.
Printed its value after this function is basically call, I just write in votes dialer X over here on
this code and as you can see that you have gone through your hair, which means that the value of X
is basically overridden and it is no longer true, but it is going to be three after this function is
going to be called where we have reinitialize the value of excretory.
So this is if you.
Ask me, it is a big disadvantage in rugby because, for example, if you don't realize that you have
certain kind of variable and you just reinitialize it and you want to use its value, then it is going
to create errors for you.
Because this is not a syntax error, but this is some kind of mathematical type of error.
Or you may say now this is something that is not going to be shown to you on your output screen and
you cannot identify where that occur if you are coding a very long program.
But if you talk about Ruby over here, then Ruby has this advantage that it has this dollar sign a with
global variable so that you know that it is a global variable.
And when you are using a global variable.
So you must know that since you are using a global variable, so this means that it will have been defined
somewhere else, but for example, if you don't realize that you have used this earlier and let's say
you think that it is the first time I'm using this variable and you define it as dollar X, then it
is going to be overridden and it is going to then create problems for you.
So it has an advantage that it has a dollar sign.
But if you have forgotten something, then it's totally not up to the ATM runner ATM or how it's totally
up to you then.
And for example, if you just don't specify the dollar sign with this and let's say I want to just write
and put X over here, I run this code and it is going to read as to and as you can see after the function
is even call it is again to and it has not changed its value because this X is now a local variable
over here.
So that was all about local variable scope, global variable scope inside function, how they are used
in the function arguments and how you can have a single variable that is a global variable as well as
a local variable.
So I guess that's it with this Dorio.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching and I'll see you guys in the next tutorial.